README.md, before:

# twilio-flex-sample-backend

This project is a demo backend service that supports various sample front end plugins to twilio flex

# Services

**To support [outbound dialing with conference](https://github.com/jhunter-twilio/plugin-flex-outbound-dialpad)**

It exposes a secure websocket with authentication that can be used to:

- trigger a call from a client
- push updates of the call status back to that client
- hang up a call for a given client

It also exposes two end points that are called by twilio when:

- providing updates to the status of calls generated by this server
- twilio retrieves a twiml document to describe how to handle a call when it is answered

**To support [realtime statistics dashboard for queues](https://github.com/jhunter-twilio/plugin-flex-realtime-stats-dashboard)**

It exposes a secure websocket with authentication that can be used to:

- recieve updates of stat changes
    - current queue stats updated every 5 seconds
    - todays overall stats updated every 30 seconds
    - turn stats on/off per channel
    - define your own SLA thresholds (max 3)

# Dependencies

Before setting up this server you must first created a dedicated TaskRouter workflow for outbound calls. You can do this [here](https://www.twilio.com/console/taskrouter/dashboard). Make sure it is part of your **Flex Task Assignment** workspace.

- ensure there is the following matching workers expression for the only filter on the workspace
  - task.targetWorker==worker.contact_uri
- ensure the priorty of the filter is set to 1000 (or at least the highest in the system)
- make sure the filter matches to a queue with Everyone on it. The default Everyone queue will work but if you want to seperate real time reporting for outbound calls, you should make a dedicated queue for it with a queue expression
  - 1==1

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhunter-twilio/outbound-dialing-backend/master/screenshots/workflow-config.png)

# Setup

You can now setup the server, you can either deploy to heroku (which is free, you just need a login) or you can setup locally and expose via ngrok

# Deploying to heroku

1. Use this link to begin [![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/jhunter-twilio/twilio-flex-sample-backend/tree/master)

2. Populate the given variables when prompted

   - TWILIO_OUTBOUND_WORKFLOW_SID - the SID of the workflow you just created - used for creating tasks
   - TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID - the account sid of your twilio account - used for calling Twilio APIs
   - TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN - the auth token of your twilio account - used for calling Twilio APIs
   - TWILIO_FLEX_WORKSPACE_SID - TaskRouter Flex Assignment Workspace Sid, generated when creating a twilio flex project
   - EXTERNAL_HOST - the host that exposes this service - used for telling Twilio where to make callbacks when calling the Twilio APIs. Should be of the form <HEROKU_APP_NAME>.herokuapp.com

3. You're all set, the backend is ready. You can access it on https://<HEROKU_APP_NAME>.herokuapp.com

# Deploying locally

1. Clone repository using git clone
2. run `npm install`
3. clone the .env.sample to .env
4. update .env as approproate, descriptions above
5. run `ngrok http 3000`
6. start server using `npm start`

# change log

v1.4 - added service that polls for real time stats ever 5 seconds and cumulative stats every 30 seconds, exposted via websocket

v1.3 - added authentication provider for websocket using api token provided by twilio via flex

v1.2 - migrated repository over to "twilio-flex-sample-backend" to be used with other plugins other than outbound dial, inroduced dotenv

v1.1 - updated websocket endpoint to reflect its dedicated to outbound calling

v1.0 - initial release

# TODOs

Commit message:

Updating author and code of conduct reference for migration into twilio labs

README.md, after:

# twilio-flex-sample-backend

This project is a demo backend service that supports various sample front end plugins to twilio flex

# Services

**To support [outbound dialing with conference](https://github.com/jhunter-twilio/plugin-flex-outbound-dialpad)**

It exposes a secure websocket with authentication that can be used to:

- trigger a call from a client
- push updates of the call status back to that client
- hang up a call for a given client

It also exposes two end points that are called by twilio when:

- providing updates to the status of calls generated by this server
- twilio retrieves a twiml document to describe how to handle a call when it is answered

**To support [realtime statistics dashboard for queues](https://github.com/jhunter-twilio/plugin-flex-realtime-stats-dashboard)**

It exposes a secure websocket with authentication that can be used to:

- recieve updates of stat changes
  - current queue stats updated every 5 seconds
  - todays overall stats updated every 30 seconds
  - turn stats on/off per channel
  - define your own SLA thresholds (max 3)

# Dependencies

Before setting up this server you must first created a dedicated TaskRouter workflow for outbound calls. You can do this [here](https://www.twilio.com/console/taskrouter/dashboard). Make sure it is part of your **Flex Task Assignment** workspace.

- ensure there is the following matching workers expression for the only filter on the workspace
  - task.targetWorker==worker.contact_uri
- ensure the priorty of the filter is set to 1000 (or at least the highest in the system)
- make sure the filter matches to a queue with Everyone on it. The default Everyone queue will work but if you want to seperate real time reporting for outbound calls, you should make a dedicated queue for it with a queue expression
  - 1==1

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jhunter-twilio/outbound-dialing-backend/master/screenshots/workflow-config.png)

# Setup

You can now setup the server, you can either deploy to heroku (which is free, you just need a login) or you can setup locally and expose via ngrok

# Deploying to heroku

1. Use this link to begin [![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/jhunter-twilio/twilio-flex-sample-backend/tree/master)

2. Populate the given variables when prompted

   - TWILIO_OUTBOUND_WORKFLOW_SID - the SID of the workflow you just created - used for creating tasks
   - TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID - the account sid of your twilio account - used for calling Twilio APIs
   - TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN - the auth token of your twilio account - used for calling Twilio APIs
   - TWILIO_FLEX_WORKSPACE_SID - TaskRouter Flex Assignment Workspace Sid, generated when creating a twilio flex project
   - EXTERNAL_HOST - the host that exposes this service - used for telling Twilio where to make callbacks when calling the Twilio APIs. Should be of the form <HEROKU_APP_NAME>.herokuapp.com

3. You're all set, the backend is ready. You can access it on https://<HEROKU_APP_NAME>.herokuapp.com

# Deploying locally

1. Clone repository using git clone
2. run `npm install`
3. clone the .env.sample to .env
4. update .env as approproate, descriptions above
5. run `ngrok http 3000`
6. start server using `npm start`

# change log

v1.4 - added service that polls for real time stats ever 5 seconds and cumulative stats every 30 seconds, exposted via websocket

v1.3 - added authentication provider for websocket using api token provided by twilio via flex

v1.2 - migrated repository over to "twilio-flex-sample-backend" to be used with other plugins other than outbound dial, inroduced dotenv

v1.1 - updated websocket endpoint to reflect its dedicated to outbound calling

v1.0 - initial release

## Code of Conduct

Please be aware that this project has a [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/twilio-labs/.github/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). The tldr; is to just be excellent to each other ❤️

# TODOs
